All right in this book aren't in this lecture we're going to take this image of these two apples and
we're going to draw them using only values.
So we'll draw a really outline which will be our contouring lines.
But then after that everything else is just going to be straight up that you know contour lines or anything
else.
We just want to use complete street value so that we can start to learn how to observe from real life
and copy it the way exactly how we see it.
So let's go ahead and get started.
Now we're only going to be doing one of these apples.
It's going to be the one on the left and only this image after this lecture and the next lecture.
You'll be able to download it for your own use.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So like I said the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create the conter in line.
And by the way this is sped up by two times just so it doesn't take as long
and you want to keep your contour line really light that way you can go back and erase areas if you
need to.
And you just want to sketch in that basic form in there and then start adding in shadow and highlight
so the right here you see I'm adding in the contour line for my stem and this edge right here was a
little bit too small so I had to erase it and bring it out a little bit further.
And then I need to decide where my cast shadows going to be.
So I first start off by really lightly adding in where the bulk of my shadow is going to be.
And you always want to make sure that you start off lightly and then progressively get darker and darker
as you go along.
This way if you need to make changes along the way you can always erase.
But if you push too hard at beginning it's going to be really hard to erase later
and like I said in the very beginning of this course you always want to be looking at your reference
more than you look at your actual drawing.
So you can actually see where my head is looking but probably more than about 50 percent of the time
I'm actually looking at my image of the Apple rather than my drawing because all that information you
need is on the apple.
It's not on your drawing.
It's on the apples so if you don't know how dark it is in a certain area you just look up and look at
your picture of the apple and then you do the same thing you see in that image.
It's all about observation.
So now I basically have all my shadows blocked in there.
The next step is to really start solidifying that and adding in more detail with my values.
And you'll notice that I'm leaving out these two light spots in the center of my apple and those are
reflections
and then add a dark line on the edge and this edge because that's what I see in the image.
You're always going to have a dark edge around your object but if that's what's in that image and that's
what you've got to do.
And then Mr. adding in my cast shadow
and again even with my cat shadow and stain pretty light just in case I ever need to come back and erase
and then you'll see how some of these edges are not all soft edges.
Some of them are really hard edges.
Then I'm to start adding in some of those lines that I see on the apple
and again just looking back at my image finding the information I need and then taking that information
and applying it to my own drawing.
So it's one little bit at a time.
So this has nothing to do with processing what is actually going on in the image.
It all has to do with just copying it.
Just looking at the image and copying it to your best to the best of your ability.
So you're just trying to copy the shape and then you're trying to copy the value and nothing else you're
not trying to understand how the reflections are working.
And you're not trying to understand light and shadow.
You're just trying to copy exactly what you see.
The more you do this the more you're going to understand how real life works.
It's just like anything else you practice the more you practice the better you'll get at it and things
will just start coming naturally and become instinctual.
Then I start darkening this area
and then you'll see down here at the bottom of the Apple we're kind of getting that bounce actually.
And I don't want you to dissect this too much like I said but I just wanted to point that out that there
is a bounce light on the bottom of this apple.
Some of the stuff you see on this Apple might not make sense.
It might be something that we haven't even gone over yet such as reflections but that's ok.
Like I said the point of this is not to understand what's going on.
It's to copy exactly what you see
and to go out and fill in my stem which I'm pretty sure is my Darcus value.
As well as this whole right here that the stem is going into
so as I'm drawing this I want you to think what's my focal point.
The focal point is where the eye is drawn to first.
And so in this drawing most likely it's going to be the stem because that's where the most contrast
is happening.
It's the darkest part of the apple.
On top of the lightest part which is the highlight on top of the apple
then I'm just going to start adding in some more cast shadow underneath here.
And I just keep working it over and over again layer after layer until I get it looking the way it looks
in the image.
Now I'm going to start adding that table line in there.
And then I'll start adding in the background.
The background is also very important in this drawing and you want to make sure you get it in there
because the background is going to add some contrast between the apple itself and the background.
So up here where the Apple gets really white unless we add a darker gray background you're not going
to really see a difference between the apple and the background but by adding in this darker gray background
all of a sudden the Apple stands out a lot more.
And this is contrast.
We'll go over this in the next lecture.
And again I'm trying not to make up my own ideas of what the drawing looks like.
I'm trying to actually look at the image and put down on paper exactly what I see in the image or as
close as possible.
So in some areas the background is a lot lighter and in some areas it's a lot darker.
So I'm trying to show that in my drawing.
Now I'm just going back over it and adding some finishing touches just to make sure it all looks good.
I'm double checking my image over and over again making sure that every area looks like the same in
the image as it does in my drawing.
Then I'm just going to quickly add a little frame around that just to make it look neater.
Then one last double check.
And I think I need to darken this reflection area a little bit more as well as this background.
I need to pull it all together with one more layer of dark gray and I need to smooth this cash out to
add a little bit more so it's not such a hard edge.
And I think that looks pretty good.
All right.
So that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we took our black and white image of an apple and we copied it for its exact values.
We didn't try to necessarily understand it.
We just tried to copy the values and the shape exactly as we saw it.
This is called a true life study.
And they're very important.
So your assignment for this lecture is to first draw this apple image that I've just done after you've
done that.
I want you to actually find a real life image.
It can even be another apple but I want you to have a real apple in front of you or anything else it
can be an egg a banana anything you want.
And then I want you to shine a lamp on it and then I want you to try to draw that from real life.
And I want you to try to copy the values and the shape of the object as best as possible.
So I really think you guys are going to enjoy this assignment and I look forward to seeing you in the
next lecture.